Now using local references is an absolutely fine way of passing the data here but there is another way and
that uses a feature called two-way binding.
We saw property binding which is the thing with the square brackets and there, it's important to note
that here, I used it on my own component,
I set up my own property to which I can bind with @input but I could also bind on the normal HTML
elements,
for example I could also bind the value property here with square brackets and then any dynamic value.
So not some text like this, if you want to pass text you have to add an extra set of quotes because the
part in between the double quotes here and that is the case for property binding and for event binding
and for string interpolation,
this is always evaluated as a Typescript expression.
So one plus one would work, if I do that, we actually see two as a default value because
that is what I'm binding to the value property of this input.
But here I don't want to bind to that, it's just important to keep in mind that property binding is available
on all elements and you can bind to any property that specific element or component has and the default
HTML elements have a lot of bindable properties. But here, I don't want to use property binding like
this,
instead I'll use a different syntax which looks like a combination of property binding with the square
brackets and event binding with the normal parentheses
and then I bind to ngModule and it has to be ngModule.
This is a directive exposed by Angular and currently not available, we'll need to change something but
we'll soon make it available,
so it's a directive made available by Angular which supports this two-way binding syntax as it is called
because this actually will listen to changes to the value and output changes into a property of our
choice and update it with the latest value
and on the other hand, it will pass back changes into the value of this input and to make this a bit
more understandable,
let's add a new property to the person input component, the enteredPersonName and that will be a string
and by default, let's say it's an empty string,
we can now also omit this type definition because Tyepscript can infer it,
so it's a empty string here and enteredPersonName is what I'll pass here between the double quotes.
Now I mentioned that this would not be available right now, to unlock the ngModule directive,
we have to go to the app module and it's not unlocked by the browser module,
instead we need to import another core Angular module and that is the forms module because this contains
functionalities that help us with handling forms or user input and we get this from Angular forms.
We have to add this in the imports array here, the forms module.
This unlocks a couple of features and amongst them, this ngModule directive which helps us again
with handling user input.
Now this is available and now we can still enter values normally here but we can do something interesting.
Remember that enteredPersonName is the property to which we are binding with ngModule,
we're not passing anything to onCreatePerson and therefore we can't expect any arguments here anymore
because we're not getting any
but since this here, enteredPersonName is now a normal property of this component, we can use it from
anywhere inside this component code.
So here I can output this enteredPersonName and this will just be a string and now if I go back to the
running application and I enter Max 2 here and I click create, we still see that here,
so this gives us access to this value as well
but it's two-way binding, so we can now also update the value of this input and to do that,
for example let's say after we created a person, we want to clear it again,
I can set enteredPersonName equal to an empty string again.
And if I do that and let it reload, I can enter Max 2 and if I hit create,
you see it's reset back to an empty form but it did receive the value correctly
and that's a nice feature we can easily implement with the help of two-way binding which is the fourth
and last form of data binding Angular knows.
We have property binding with the square brackets where we bind to properties of our own components or
built-in elements, we have event binding with parentheses where we bind to native events or our own
events,
I'll soon show you how this works
or we use string interpolation which we use anywhere where we want to output text,
we use it with double curly braces or we use two-way binding on input elements which allows us to get
the current value but also write to that value,
so it allows us to interact with it in both directions.
These are four crucial parts of Angular which you'll see being used a lot in this course
and therefore it's important to understand them.
Now of course we are not done here because I don't just want to output the entered name here, I instead
want to use that entered name and kind of pass it back to the app component so that we can add it to
this array of persons there and
that's what we'll do next.